Testing Connection to Servers - New Post (#42)
PowerShell/Community-Blog: Posts/2021/04/get-live-servers.md

---

> post_title: Testing The Connection to Computers in the Active Directory

Reviewer: MS Style Guide - Use sentence case not Title case
```suggestion
post_title: Testing the connection to computers in the Active Directory
```

username: tfl@psp.co.uk
Catagories: PowerShell
tags: Active Directory, networking
Summary: How can I get AD computers check to see they are online?
---

**Q:** As an administrator, I often have to do a lot of reporting on the servers in my domain.
Is there a simple way to test the connection to every server in my domain or every server or client host in a specific OU?

**A:**  Of course you can do this with PowerShell! You can use the Active Directory cmdlets and `Test-Connection`, although it is not as simple as one might like.

## Using the `ActiveDirectory` module

Microsoft has developed several modules to help you deploy and manage AD in your organisation or via Azure.
The `ActiveDirectory` module is one which Microsoft ships with Windows Server (although not installed by default).
You can also load the Remote Server Administration (RSAT) module for AD on a Windows 10 host.
The RSAT module allows you to manage the AD using PowerShell from a remote machine.

> For more details on the `ActiveDirectory` module, see the [ActiveDirectory module documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/addsadministration/().)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on the `ActiveDirectory` module, see the [ActiveDirectory](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/addsadministration/) module documentation.
```

> You can use the `Get-ADComputer` account to return details about some or all computers within the AD.
> You have several ways to use `Get-ADComputer` to get just the computer accounts you want with any property you need.

Reviewer: Make imperative.

```suggestion
Use the `Get-ADComputer` account to return details about some or all computers within the AD.
There are several ways to use `Get-ADComputer` to get just the computer accounts you want with any property you need.
```

> These include using the **-Identity** and **-Filter** parameters.  

Reviewer: See the PowerShell style guide. When referencing parameters with the dash character, use backticks. But when talking about parameters in a paragraph, use bold without the dash. You should only use the dash form when you are specifically talking about syntax.

```suggestion
These include using the **Identity** and **Filter** parameters.  
```

Every computer account returned by `Get-ADComputer` contains two important properties: **Name** and **DNSHostName**.
The **Name** property is the single-label name of the computer (aka the NetBIOS name).
The **DNSHostName** property is the fully qualified DNS name for the computer.
Like this:

```powershell-console

> PS C:\Foo> Get-ADComputer -Filter * | Format-Table -Property Name, DNSHostName

Reviewer: For examples, use the simplified prompt or no prompt at all unless the path displayed is relevant to the example. This is more platform agnostic. It also avoids the backslash bug we have with the WordPress import.

```suggestion
PS> Get-ADComputer -Filter * | Format-Table -Property Name, DNSHostName
```

Test-Connection: Cannot validate argument on parameter 'TargetName'. The argument is null, empty, or an element of the argument collection contains a null value. Supply a collection that does not contain any null values and then try the command again.
Test-Connection: Cannot validate argument on parameter 'TargetName'. The argument is null, empty, or an element of the argument collection contains a null value. Supply a collection that does not contain any null values and then try the command again.
```

What is going on here?

## Property/Parameter misalignment

What we have here is a classic, albeit relatively uncommon, situation.
The `Test-Connection` cmdlet uses the parameter name **Target** to indicate the computer to which you are testing a connection.
However, in this pipelined command, the objects produced by `Get-ADComputer` do not contain properties of that name.
Instead, these objects have properties named **Name** and **DNSHostName**.

> Please note: with Windows PowerShell, you used the parameter ComputerName to indicate the computer you are investigating.
> With PowerShell 7, the developers have changed this parameter name `TargetName`.
> For best compatibility, the cmdlet defines the `ComputerName` alias to this parameter.
> This cmdlet lets you use either **-TargetName** or **-Computername** with `Test-Connection`.

Reviewer: Use WordPress NOTE syntax and clean up formatting

```suggestion
[alert type="note" heading="Note"]With Windows PowerShell, you used the parameter **ComputerName** to indicate the computer you are investigating.
With PowerShell 7, the developers have changed this parameter name to **TargetName**.
For best compatibility, the cmdlet defines the**`ComputerName** alias to this parameter.
This cmdlet lets you use either **TargetName** or **Computername** with `Test-Connection`.[/alert]
```

## ForEach-Object to the rescue

It is pretty easy to get around this parameter/property alignment challenge.
You use the `Foreach-Object` cmdlet, like this:

```powershell-console

> PS C:\Foo> Get-ADComputer -Filter * | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PS> Get-ADComputer -Filter * | 
```

                                              (ms)        (B)
|---- ------      -------                   ------- ---------- ------
   1 cookham24   2a02:8010:6386:0:f810:2b…       1         32 Success
   2 cookham24   2a02:8010:6386:0:f810:2b…       0         32 Success
   3 cookham24   2a02:8010:6386:0:f810:2b…       0         32 Success
   4 cookham24   2a02:8010:6386:0:f810:2b…       3         32 Success
etc
```

## Using the Extensible Type System

If you plan to do a lot of this sort of work, there is a more straightforward way to get around this property/parameter alignment issue.
You can use the Extensible Type System (ETS) to extend any AD Computer object to contain an alias to the `Name` or `DNSHostName` property.
You define this extension via a small XML file which you then import, like this:

```powershell-console
PS C:\Foo> get-content '.\aaatypes.types.ps1xml'
<Types>
 <Type>
    <Name>Microsoft.ActiveDirectory.Management.ADComputer</Name>
    <Members>
       <AliasProperty>
          <Name>TargetName</Name>
          <ReferencedMemberName>DNSHostName</ReferencedMemberName>
         </AliasProperty>
    </Members>
  </Type>

</Types>

> PS C:\Foo> Update-TypeData -PrependPath .\aaatypes.types.ps1xml
> PS C:\Foo> Get-ADComputer -Identity Cookham1 | Test-Connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PS> Update-TypeData -PrependPath .\aaatypes.types.ps1xml
PS> Get-ADComputer -Identity Cookham1 | Test-Connection
```

   Destination: Cookham1.cookham.net

Ping Source           Address                   Latency BufferSize Status
                                                   (ms)        (B)
---- ------           -------                   ------- ---------- ------
   1 cookham24        10.10.10.9                      0         32 Success
   2 cookham24        10.10.10.9                      0         32 Success
   3 cookham24        10.10.10.9                      0         32 Success
   4 cookham24        10.10.10.9                      0         32 Success
```

You can persist this ETS extension by adding the `Update-TypeData` to your PowerShell profile.
That way, every time you start a PowerShell session, that ETS extension is in place and ready to assist you.

For details of and background to the ETS, see the [Extended Type System Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/developer/ets/overview).

## Summary

The `Get-ADComputer` cmdlet produces objects whose properties the object developers have not aligned, pipeline wise, with Test-Connection.
There is a simple way around that, using `For-EachObject`, although it takes a bit more typing.

> You can also use the ETS to extend the `ADComputer` object to have a more friendly alias.

Reviewer: Types in bold
```suggestion
You can also use the ETS to extend the **ADComputer** object to have a more friendly alias.
```
